Then we have so much data that we need distributed computing.
The data itself often needs to be stored in a distributed way as well.
Distributed file systems, many storage services,
and distributed databases store data in a fault tolerant way.
So if a machine breaks or becomes unavailable,
we don't lose the information we have collected.
As we mentioned in the previous lesson,
Hadoop has a Distributed File System,
HDFS, to store data.
HDFS splits files inton64 or 128 megabyte blocks
and replicates these blocks across the cluster.
This way, the data is stored in a fault tolerant way
and can be accessed in digestible chunks.
If you don't want to maintain our own cluster,
we can use many services such as
the Amazon Simple Storage Service or S3 to store objects
entered to retrieve any random data from anywhere.
Companies using AWS or Amazon Web Services
often use S3 to store the raw data they have collected.